Once around Schwashman Wackman 2. So
Swashman Wackman 2 identified as a
comet, comet 31 and P for periodic with
the names of the two discoverers there
was found just after its namesake
Schwashman Wackman 1. And this was the
17th of January 1929
by Swashman and Wackman at the Hamburg
Observatory on photographic plates. They
did a lot of work with this sort of
technique and they found several objects
which bear their name.
This one's a bit smaller than S SW1. So
S SW2 is just 6.2 miles in uh 6.2 km in
diameter. So, a a mod modest comet sized
object, not the giant that SW1 is.
That's uh getting on for the the size of
Hail Bop. This one's slightly smaller
there than comet Halley. Fairly typical
for a a comet nucleus.
It's in orbit around the sun, taking 8.7
years, and traversing from 3.4 four
astronomical units at its perihelion to
five astronomical units when it's
furthest from the sun with a slightly
elliptical orbit. So that's typical of
what you would call a Jupiter family
comet. It goes into the inner solar
system into the asteroid belt and then
back out to just close to Jupiter's
orbit. So showing signs that Jupiter is
really dictating its orbit.
It passed close to Jupiter in 1926 and
had its orbit changed from a 9.3 to a
6.4 year long orbit. It made another
pass just fairly recently in 1997 and
that changed the orbit back to the
current 8.7 years. And in 2023,
so only a few years away now, it's going
to pass Jupiter again. And we think that
that will give it another kick, reducing
the orbit to 7.8 years. So you can see
how these interactions with Jupiter
periodically change the orbit in a
relatively chaotic way. And that's
actually part of the story of this
object because back in 1904,
astronomer Max Wolf found an asteroid
A904EB,
the designation given the name and the
catalog number 525 Adelaide, but then he
lost it. Completely failed to be able to
track it after the first period. So, a
lost asteroid. And this happened a
reasonable number of times with
asteroids that were discovered in and
around that period. It was quite
difficult to uh tra track track them.
They would disappear into the glare of
the twilight and never be seen again.
But in 1929, an young American uh
astronomer reported its recovery. So,
after 25 years, we picked it up again.
or at least we thought we had because
there's more to it than that.
In 1958,
it was noted that asteroid Rusttoia
and the lost asteroid
525 Adelaide were one in the same
object. Now, the Minor Planet Center
decided to keep the later designation
from 1958 for the body and call it
Rustoelia.
And they freed up
slot 525 in the catalog and the name
Adelaide, allowing it to be reused. And
so that was then reused for a different
body, 1908 EKA. So some of the
documentation refers to 525 Adelaide and
it means Rusttoilia and some of it
refers to Adelaide and means 1908 EKA
which is a little bit confusing. But
neither of them were the body that Anne
Young had seen and mistakenly identified
as 525 Adelaide. What she saw was our
comet SW2 Schwashman Wackman 2. And so
that also appears in the literature
sometimes identified as 525 Adelaide. So
that's three things with the same name.
Um a certain amount of confusion and
quite an interesting little tale to this
otherwise fairly unremarkable comet, but
it's got an interesting history. And it
just goes to show that those orbital
perturbations that knock things from one
orbit to another can result in them
being subsequently
thought to be a new object. Whereas in
fact they're a lost uh uh asteroid or a
lost comet that has been picked up in a
new orbit after a giant planet
encounter.
So thanks very much for listening to the
short story of Schwashman Wackman 2.